## SG2047 - Week 11

Edit 'Things to Do!' to structure this ...

1. Dashboards & Composite Graphics - 45 mins -
  - Dashboards Deconstructed and Constructed
      * composite graphics and narrative
      * examples, concepts & tests
      * guidelines and good practice
  - Tableau Dashboards & Narrative

  > WATCH : use PDFs, check questions!

  / Data Density
  / How many graphics

2. Tableau Tips for Dashboards - 30 Mins  -> "Tableau Dashboards & Narrative"
  Features and capabilities that will help you.

3. Tableau Tips page

4. Wexler BIG BOOK Task

5. Module feedback.

  Motivating for us - helps us know what works and what doesn't
  Anonymous - please put time into it.
  'Library' - think about the entire range of resources : software, data, subscriptions, videos, etc.

6. Do coursework - class next week!
7.

---

/ Email everyone!

/ Add Rob Radburn to Lecture Links
  http://j.mp/robRadburnTableau

* Organise class for next week WEDS!

---

Hello - it's week 11!

This week's session is held on Monday 29th March at 10am.

The UK entered summertime overnight and so if you are not in the UK the time you need to show up may have changed a little.

Use TimeAndDate.com to enter your location to work out when the lecture starts!
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20210329T090000&p1=136

The focus is on COMPOSITE DATA GRAPHICS this week, and we have four related topics - all are directly relevant to the coursework and will give you knowledge, guidelines and skills that will help you with this:
 1. Composite Graphics & Narrative
 2. Examples, Concepts & Tests
 3. Guidelines & Good Practice
 4. Tableau Dashboard Tips

I have pre-recorded videos and we'll watch a couple of these and discuss them subsequently.

Remember to be online before 10am, ready to start, and to have two unique words ready that describe your week.
See you at 9:50!

J.
