<style>
    blockquote {
        padding-top:0.75em;
        padding-bottom:0.75em;
        color:#b44;
        background-color:#fff0f0;
    }
</style>

From [Poll Everywhere - Anonymous Questions](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/url/view.php?id=881177)


<br> <hr/>

> For task 1, do we need to use Tableau? I still have problems registering it.

Hopefully this is fixed - see the updated [Tableau Desktop](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=824653) page.<br/>
You don't need to use _Tableau_ for Task 1.

<br> <hr/>

> Hi Jason, for the assignment, can we choose our own data visualisation design tests?

Yes.<br/>
"_the evaluation table – containing 4 [Data Vis Design Tests](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=824700) **that you have selected**_"

And.<br/>
"_You must **select 4 of the following 12** [Data Visualization Design Tests](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=824700) or [HeurVIStics](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=824700)!_"<br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;PROPORTION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;POSITION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;DETECTION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ASSEMBLY<br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;DISCRIMINATION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ESTIMATION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;DENSITY&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;SCALE<br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;PROXIMITY&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;VARIATION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;STRUCTURE&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;EFFICIENCY<br/>

Any feedback on how I can say this more clearly would be appreciated - I try my best.

<br> <hr/>

> When comparing male and female life expectancy, there's an equal life expectancy line in the graphic.<br/>
> Would this be considered a mark or is it just to make the graphic easier to understand?<br/>
> Would we not explain how those above the line mean women have a higher life expectancy than men?

I am using the term 'mark' to refer to the elements of the graphic that directly encode data from the data table, because our focus here is on the DNA - the relationship between _Level of Measurement_ (Variation), _Level of Detail_ (Resolution) and _Visual Variable_, which we now know is framed by some guidance (G/M/P) when data channels are encoded in graphics. 

So elements of a graphic like average lines, axes and tick marks, are different - these are ANNOTATIONS.

There are two types of ANNOTATION (see the final page of the [DNA Table Templates](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/url/view.php?id=824672) ):

 * MARKS - supplementary marks that relate the marks in a layer, such as the lines between data points in a line graph 
 * LABELS - additional information to help interpretation, such as text, grids, averages and lines that show particular values. 

I'd suggest that the line you mention is a _label annotation_ and you can log if in an annotation table for completeness.

Incidentally, I have updated the [DNA Table Templates](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/url/view.php?id=824672) to contain _Variation_ and _Guidance_ columns.

<br> <hr/>

> I'm looking at the week 2 lecture videos.<br/>
Could you re-explain layers marks and legends?<br/>
I don't understand the differences between them.

_Layers_ are sets of marks of similar type in which common characteristics vary to show variation in some data channel.

We have seen examples including :

 - marks that vary in position, shape, size and colour to show how land use varies geographically over a City;
 - marks that vary in position to show where the bike rental stations are in a City
 - marks that vary in their position to show the relative values of two variables in a scatter plot.
 - marks that vary in their position and shape to show the relative values of two variables and an additional quality in a scatter plot.

Filling in the _Layer table_ will help you describe the layer.

We can then produce a DNA table of a layer that describes these variations of visual variables and what they show.

_Legends_ are the key to the graphic - they are visual explanations that tell us what the marks in a graphic mean.<br/>We are not capturing these in our DNA tables, though considering them may help us think about what is being encoded (data channel), and what is varying in the encoding (visual variable).

J.