Thanks to those who submitted work in progress for feedback.

#### INDIVIDUAL FEEDBACK!

You should find an audio file with individual comments and answers to some of your questions attached to your submission.
Check here:

- [https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/assign/view.php?id=2381694](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/assign/view.php?id=2381694)

Or try the grader report - does that work?

- [https://moodle.city.ac.uk/grade/report/grader/index.php?id=45842](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/grade/report/grader/index.php?id=45842)

#### GENERAL FEEDBACK!

The progress looked pretty good on the whole … but here is some general feedback:

- Ignore the boroughs. If you have been allocated Croydon, Merton and Sutton just think of it as a single area called CroSutMer or something. Try to get the boroughs out of your heads and compare the LSOAs and how their characteristics vary.<br/><br/>

- Ignore LSOAs that are not in your allocated area - use the FILTER feature to get rid of them.<br/><br/>

- Size your maps so that you are not wasting dashboard space on areas that are outside your area of interest.<br/><br/>

- Make sure you pass the REPETITION test.<br/><br/>

- Bubble charts, AAAAARRRGGHHHH!! Why waste the most effective and expressive visual variable? First Place. Use place (position, location) effectively to show quantities and relationships. Seriously, Bubble Charts only use visual variables that are low on Munzner’s ranking chart … so how can you justify them?<br/><br/>

- Do remember to mention LOCATION or POSITION and what you are using it to encode. A few of you never mentioned it, but this is the most important decision you will make in arranging marks in your graphics and graphics in your dashboard. First place.<br/><br/>

- I didn’t see a single reference to the essential Text - The Big Book of Dashboards - this surprised me.<br/><br/>

- I didn’t see many connectors or containers. Most of the dashboards lacked any visual narrative.<br/><br/>

- How many citations should I use? I can’t give a sensible numeric answer to this question, but not none! You need to draw upon evidence and use it to develop arguments to show that you have achieved the module learning outcomes. More is usually better as long as the references and citations are used appropriately and convincingly. <br/><br/>

- If you have an overplotted scatter plot that fails the detection text, vary colour opacity, size and shape to see whether you can improve things. Click the axis and change the range to make sure that you use all of the space available to show the data. Try the detection and assembly tests again!<br/><br/>

#### MORE FEEDBACK!

There will be a face-to-face class (or two) next Thursday (20th) where we can chat about your work as it develops.
Details to follow once I have a room booked.

#### EVEN MORE FEEDBACK THAN THAT!

Remember to use the Visualization Discussion forum for, um … Visualization Discussion before then.

😉

#### FEEDBACK FREE WEEKEND

I’m pretty tired after the bout of COVID, looking after the kids (and the cats) this weekend and worried that I’ll need a long lie down after the Foxes head to Manchester City on Saturday … so I am offline now until Monday.

Have a good weekend.

J.
