Hi.

I have tried to give you some flexibility over HOW you reference.
But you do need to provide full details of any sources used.
Your responsibility in doing so is to make it as easy as possible for the reader to find it by providing full details.

If you read and used the tables from the lecture notes and materials that I have prepared then cite these as we did in Coursework Task 1:

Munzner (2014), cited by Dykes, J. (2023). SG2047 : Visualizing Society - Week 05, Effective Encoding. City, Univ of London.

Dykes (2019), Data Visualization Design Tests, in
Dykes, J. (2023). SG2047 : Visualizing Society - Week 05, Effective Encoding. City, Univ of London.

If you engage with the sources themselves, then use Harvard or APA to make full reference to the source and its' authors, publication date along with any journal name, publishers, doi, page numbers or whatever.

J.

--

It looks like we have a positive relationship between the proportions those of white ethnicity (k012) and the proportions of those employed in management roles (k110) in these LSOAs.
But it's not particularly strong - R2 is 0.34.
Actually, It looks like a non-linear relationship to be honest - with a curved best-fit line that is either logarithmic or exponential - but no need to worry about that. Let's go with the simple linear model, that's all we need.

So what this means is that we can predict or explain proportions in management (k110) by proportions of white (k012) to an extent.
And your equation (model) will do that ...

Predicted K110 = someMultiplier \* K012 +/- somethingElse

If you then look at the differences between the model (the prediction of K110 based on K012) and the actual value of K110 we know the LSOAs in which the model works well and those in which it doesn't. Just take one from the other to find the difference.

Difference (residual) = Predicted K110 - K110

If the difference is high, the model overpredicted, if low, it underpredicted.

Mapping this (DNA: GEOGRAPHY -> POSITION) allows us to see WHERE these differences are greatest and whether the proportions of managers (K110) are higher or lower than we would expect given the proportions ot white (K012)

And these patterns may relate to other variables that may help to explain the differences in proportions of managers that are not explained by proportions of ethnic white.

Also - remember that we are not talking about PEOPLE here, but areas.
So we don't know that we have managers who are of white origin.
We just know that we have areas that have certain proportions of each - they may not be the same people. The focus here is on areas.

You say:
"Model seems to be overpredicting amount of managers that are of white origin"

The model over and under predicts equally - there are as many points above the line as below it.

I would say:
"Model seems to be predict proportion of managers in an areas based upon proportions of white origin reasonably well (R2=0.34), but is least successful in PLACEX (underprediction) and PLACEY (overprediction). This might be explained by KeyVar00?, which has a similar spatial distribution to the residuals."

Or something.

J.
