
Thanks to those who logged a graphic selection by the end of last week.

I quickly checked to see whether the selections met the criteria and most did.
My responses are in columns D and E of [SG2047 - Visualizing Society : Task 1 Selected Data Graphics](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hXYTsi_oe8O2veS0E9y5gNGp8YlWPnk7H6WMfgW0IQ0/edit?gid=0#gid=0).

In _two cases_ I suggested a re-think and I have copied the examples and my comments here to help others who have not yet selected graphics.

Note that I will not be responding to individual selections for various reasons:

 * **workload** - I have to plan and schedule activity pretty tightly and allocate times and dates to the things I do
 * **consistency** - the only way I know of being fair to all is to treat everybody in exactly the same way by doing what you said you would do - no special cases*
 * **precedence** - I want you to get used to planning to submit in good time as this is what you will need to do with the formally assessed work. Late work gets zero.

I hope that makes sense.

Here are the two example graphics where I suggested a re-think - use these comments (and the coursework instructions and the rubric) to help with your selection ...

### 1. Homelessness

[Men are more likely to be homeless in most countries, but there are exceptions](https://ourworldindata.org/data-insights/men-are-more-likely-to-be-homeless-in-most-countries-but-there-are-exceptions)

#### Jason's Comment :

> Link works - but I would question this one.<br/>Is it data dense?<br/>Is it relational?<br/>We only have 15 data items, is that "many"? <br/>Perhaps have a rethink?

### 2. Abstinence

[Share of the population who don't drink alcohol, United
Kingdom, 2016](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/share-who-dont-drink-alcohol)

#### Jason's Comment :

> Link works - and this is relational (ages, gender, 'shares') - but is it data dense?<br/>There are just 10 data items here so you may not be meeting all of the requirements of the coursework instructions. Have a rethink?

Best!

Jason.