Hello [:firstname:],
You are receiving this message as you are listed as a participant in the [Summer Assessment](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=14949#section-19) over the next four weeks. The instructions, rubric and submission points are all online, please read through thoroughly. Plenty of support materials are online too - the module has a rich digital presence and the annotated reading list contains a limited set of accessible and relevant resources that will help you visualize society effectively. I will be able to provide **limited** support for you over the summer and this will be constrained to one week - from **Mon 21st July** - **Fri 25th July**. However, I will be monitoring the [Visualization Discussion](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/forum/view.php?id=824647) forum **this week** - so if you have specific queries about the [Summer Assessment](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=14949#section-19), then please post them there. I encourage you to use this forum to discuss issues with other students who are _visualizing society_ this summer. Shared perspectives and discussion help with learning and problem solving, and with motivation, but shared solutions are not allowed. So please use the [Visualization Discussion](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/forum/view.php?id=824647) forum appropriately and wisely. I will be taking some time off this summer with my family. In fairness to them, and indeed to me and my long-term health, I **do not check email while I am away**. I am too busy having fun and recuperating. So please communicate as instructed above for support with your work. Good luck with it all - read carefully, think deeply, and enjoy analysing (Task 1), or using and designing (Task 2), pretty pictures of important phenomena which, when designed in line with the theory and principles that we have been studying, enable us to see the world in new and important ways. I really hope that you find the learning, problem solving and designing fulfilling. Best, Jason. P.S. If you are unable to see the assignment on Moodle, do contact me and the UG Office immediately.