<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://staff.city.ac.uk/~jad7/sg2047/sg2047.css">

<!---
  ## Homework
  --->

There are **five** tasks this week - you need to complete them _by Friday_ please.

<!--
### 0. **WEEK 02 VIDEOS - Extra Slides and Commentary**

Before we get going on the homework, we need to finish the lecture!

I have produced videos describing the concepts (and slides and examples) that we didn't manage to get to this Monday.

Each is less than 20 minutes long. Please make sure you have watched through (and acted - making notes, checking WebSites) before the next class.

I hope I have found a better capture technology this week and that the recording is clearer - let me know!

##### Annotation

Slides and commentary with example DNA tables and an introduction to ways that we can capture '_ANNOTATION_' of marks associated with particular layers. These may _RELATE_ and _ASSOCIATE_ marks or be additional marks and labels that provide information to help interpret the encodings.

 * [SG2047 - Week 02 - ANNOTATION](https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/9932596b-f5a2-41e9-9193-0dd25ff28839)


##### Visual Variables

Introduces the set of Visual Variables - the graphical characteristics of marks that we can vary in order to encode data. Make sure you know what they are and are able to use them in your DNA tables and other descriptions of graphics.

 * [SG2047 - Week 02 - VISUAL VARIABLES](https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/55732f61-f864-45f6-bba9-75768cbee3ca)


##### TASK 0:
> _Watch the two **WEEK 02 Videos** on the [SG2047 Video Stream](http://j.mp/sg2047stream21)!_

-->

### 1. **Describe Some Example Data Graphics**

I'd like you to try to complete pairs of tables for each of the following two examples that we looked at in class :

1. [Job search methods in Estonia](http://j.mp/estonianJobSearch)
1. [Average learning outcomes vs GDP, 2015](http://j.mp/owidAchievementAndGDP)

You should download **digital copies** of the tables from the Web :

- [DNA Templates 2021 - SG2047](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P8rFms2665vPPFwuH-YPCSy_0amMMnrw_e7XmIymD4M/edit?usp=sharing) <br/>
  _Click File, Download, then choose a format._ <br/>
  _MS Word works fine if you use MS Office to edit documents._ <br/>

I will talk through some examples next week, including these ones.

You'll find next week most beneficial if you try this homework yourself in preparation for class.

##### TASK 1:

> _Complete **DNA Tables** for these **Example Graphics**._

&nbsp;

### 2. **Find and Describe a Data Graphic**

And then I would like you to try a graphics of your own!

Once again I'd like you to look through the reports at [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/) and find a chart, or data graphic, that interests you.

Here's what you need to do:

1. Check [Reports](https://ourworldindata.org/#entries) that seem interesting to look for candidate graphics.
   You'll find lots of themed reports that address important topics.
   And there are [thousands of data graphics](https://ourworldindata.org/charts)

2. Interact with the graphics - you can change the data that are shown and the way that they look in many cases.

3. Choose a graphic that is of interest.

4. Describe the Graphic using the [DNA Templates 2021 - SG2047](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P8rFms2665vPPFwuH-YPCSy_0amMMnrw_e7XmIymD4M/edit?usp=sharing) :

- _Load the Google doc_ - [DNA Templates 2021 - SG2047](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P8rFms2665vPPFwuH-YPCSy_0amMMnrw_e7XmIymD4M/edit?usp=sharing) <br/>
  _Click File, Download, then choose a format._ <br/>
  _MS Word works fine if you use MS Office to edit documents._ <br/>
  _Edit your local copy of the Document_ <br/>

**IMPORTANT NOTE!**<br/>Try your best - there is nothing to lose here, but lots to gain.<br/>Consider the graphics in detail and come up with as good a _Layer_ and _Encoding_ or _DNA_ table as you can for each.<br/>
Solutions will be provided in a week or two.<br/>
**This is important learning and good practice for the first coursework task.**

##### TASK 2:

> _Complete a **DNA Table** for a selected graphic from **Our World in Data**._

&nbsp;

### 3. **Visualization Videos**

I'd like you to watch a couple of short **movies** in which two colleagues introduce some ideas about visualization.

_Prof. Jo Wood_ and _Dr. Miriah Meyer_ are two talented visualization researchers, both of whom I have written papers with recently, and they are two of the 3 papers chairs of the latest IEEE Information Visualization conference this time around. They are leaders in the discipline! They have both produced useful videos that introduce visualization in complimentary ways.

They present some interesting ideas and examples that should help you see the kinds of work we do and ways that we design visual ways of presenting and interacting with data. I hope they are interesting introductions to visualization - particularly for _exploration_.

See the [Lecture Links](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=2381589) page for links to the two short movies that I recommend.

##### TASK 3:

> _Watch the introductory TEDx talks by visualization researchers **Jo Wood** and **Miriah Meyer**._

&nbsp;

### 4. **Get Tableau Desktop**

Follow the [Instructions on downloading and installing Tableau Desktop](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=2381590)!

<!--- Check the [Module Resources](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=45842#section-2) block for details and links. --->

Make sure you have **registered** for Tableau and **downloaded** and **installed** a copy before next week's class, when we will be using _Tableau_ to explore some data and design some graphics.

##### TASK 4:

> _Be sure to register for **Tableau** and get **Tableau Desktop** installed on your laptop or desktop computer._

&nbsp;

### ?. **Complete Outstanding Homework & Catch up on Video Lectures!**

Of course, not everybody has completed the tasks that have been set up until now or watched all the video letures.

Things will get busy as term progresses, so please put the effort in to ensure that you are up to date with previous tasks.

These are important activities that are the foundation for the knowledge and skills that you will need to demonstrate in the assessed activities.

##### EXTRA TASK ?:

> _Be sure to get up to date on the previous tasks!_

---

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
