### Module Assessment

<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jsndyks/sg2047/main/css/sg2047.css">

<style type="text/css">
 .mIcon {float:right; padding:0.5em; margin:4px; padding-right:2em}
 lightTable table,th,tr,td {border:1px solid #ffffff; border-collapse: collapse;}
 th {background-color:#f0f0f0}
 td {margin:1em; padding:1em}
</style>

The module is assessed by **coursework only**.

You will need to complete and submit **two pieces of individual coursework**

1.  the first, likely by the end of **Week6** (Fri, 10/03/2023)
2.  the second, after the **end of term**, likely in **Week 13** (Wed, 26/04/2023)

**The definitive dates and exact times are shown in the assessment submission areas.**<br/>
Please check these and submit your work well before the deadlines :

- **late work is not marked and a score of ZERO will be returned in such cases**</b>.

Your grade for the module will be the weighted sum of the two pieces of work.

Work must be submitted through Moodle and feedback will also be provided through Moodle using _GradeMark_.

&nbsp;

| **Task**                     |                                          **weight** |        **set** |    **deadline** |    **feedback** |
| :--------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------: | -------------: | --------------: | --------------: |
| 1: **Assess a Data Graphic** | <span style="font-size:175%">&nbsp;30%&nbsp;</span> | _Week 5 (Tue)_ |  _Week 6 (Fri)_ | _Week 10 (Mon)_ |
| 2: **Design a Data Graphic** | <span style="font-size:175%">&nbsp;70%&nbsp;</span> | _Week 8 (Tue)_ | _Week 13 (Wed)_ | _Week 16 (Fri)_ |

&nbsp;

Guidance, grading criteria and other assessment details and instructions, including a submission area, will be provided on the _Module Homepage_ when the coursework is released.

<div class="postIt" markdown=1>

**We reserve the right to modify this schedule at any time.**
<br/>

Students will be notified of any such changes in good time through messages sent to their <code>@city.ac.uk</code> e-mail addresses.<br/>

All students must therefore ensure that they are receiving messages to this address and that they check their City e-mail inbox regularly.

</div>

&nbsp;

---

##### Extensions &amp; Extenuating Circumstances

If you cannot submit by a submission deadline, you may be eligible to apply for an extension or an extenuating circumstances claim. Please see the guidance, FAQs and application forms available [here](https://cityuni.sharepoint.com/teams/CUoL-SASSStudentSupport/SitePages/SASS-Extensions.aspx)

- [Extension requests](https://cityuni.sharepoint.com/teams/CUoL-SASSStudentSupport/SitePages/SASS-Extensions.aspx#extensions-application-form) must be submitted before the assessment deadline has passed and you are allowed a maximum of 3 extensions per year.

- [Extenuating circumstances claims](https://evision.city.ac.uk/) should be submitted within 7 days of the assessment deadline.

Please contact the course office on <code>ugsocandcrim@city.ac.uk</code> if you need any further clarification.

&nbsp;

---

**Jason DYKES**<br/>
_20 Jan 2023_

---
