### Summary Description

<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://jsndyks.github.io/sg2047/css/sg2047.css">

Data is everywhere: in the media and news, in political and policy debate, in advertising and in social research. Visual representations of data abound – in the press, on web sites and as important tools for use in understanding data at a number of levels in both the physical and social sciences.

Before the COVID pandemic **Prof. Jim Hollan** of _UC San Diego_ put it succinctly

> "_Visualization is fundamental to meeting the unprecedented challenges and exploiting the wonderful opportunities of the ever-expanding deluge of data confronting virtually every field_".

Since the COVID pandemic our use of data day by day, to assess risk and inform behaviour and policy, has been heightened.

**This module helps you develop _a visual approach to using data in social science_.**

- It **informs** you, by introducing and synthesizing research in cognitive science, computer science and the geo-sciences and accounts for developing practice in design;
- It will help you **interpret** graphical representations of data as you make sense of data through graphics;
- It will help you **design** meaningful and useful graphics to explore data sets and understand them, and to explain data sets as you communicate your findings to others;

The module is data led and will involve you using industry standard software to produce graphics of selected data sets that are relevant to social science.

You will design and develop graphics that show broad structure and subtle nuance in the data sets that you select by engaging with best practice in graphical design, considering ways in which visualization designers have approached data design challenges and engaging in critique and redesign.

### Aims

This module aims to ...

- establish principles of graphical design and levels of graphical literacy;
- enable you to critique graphics and develop plausible visualization through a process of description, self-critique and redesign;
- ensure that you are able to use appropriate software to effectively visualize data sets that describe society in a variety of ways;

### Learning Outcomes

In order to be awarded credit having successfully completed the module, you will need to show that you can ...

1.  **explain** - _the appropriate use of visual marks and their characteristics_ - in graphical depictions of data
2.  **design** - _graphics of a range of data types_ - that represent aspects of society effectively and appropriately
3.  **use** - _visualization software_ - to produce meaningful graphics of society
4.  **demonstrate** - _a critical approach_ - to the evaluation of visualization
5.  **apply** - _established knowledge of perception and principles of design_ - in designing and critiquing graphics
6.  **value** - _established knowledge of perception and principles of design_ - in designing and critiquing graphics

You should use these six outcomes as a benchmark against which you check your progress and plan your learning.

Make sure you understand them, check them every couple of weeks or so to make sure that you are on track.

Routinely check whether you can do these things, whether you are doing these things, whether you need to pactice doing these things, whether you need help in doing these things.

### Teaching &amp; Learning

Various teaching and learning activities will be organised to help you achieve these outcomes.
Indeed, **everything that I plan, discuss and ask you to do is intended to help you achieve these six things listed above**.
That's the whole point. This is my plan to educate you to the level required for you to achieve those 6 outcomes.
So please follow the plan closely!

You will participate in weekly classes that contain **lectures**, in which ideas and examples will be introduced, and interactive **practicals** in which you will gain hands on experience of visualization systems and problems. These are interspersed a little in the 2 hour sessions on Wednesdays as we are in a single room for our session. 

Examples will be used throughout the module so that you are able to see how data is visualized in a range of contexts including academic work, government, industry and in developing and communicating policy.

Sources of additional reading are provided through the [Module Reading List](https://rl.talis.com/3/city/lists/4D152441-27AB-C0A5-5DAD-E23F65978349.html) to consolidate the information provided during lectures. These are all available online or for download, so you have plenty of access to excellent resources to inform your studies. Directed reading and other activity will be provided for reading week. This reading, and the examples we consider will be used to inform a series of _Data Visualization Design Tests_ or _HeurVIStics_ that we will use to guide our approach to visualization as the module progresses.
You will be able to use these as a lens through which to interpret and evaluate data graphics, and to guide design decisions when you are visualizing data.

You will identify, evaluate and develop _visualization designs_ throughout the module and will spend time in class using industry standard software to do so.

The coursework involves developing a design to _visualize society_. You will receive formative feedback on your design in a coursework workshop prior to its submission, enabling you to _redesign_ in light of feedback and critique.

The module will be taught over one term. Particular emphasis is placed on active hands-on learning and you will be provided with a range of hands-on tasks, visualization challenges and data sets.

---

### Notes and Note Taking

How will you participate?<br/>What will you do in class?

It surprises me that some students seem to think that just sitting there will somehow give them the knowledge that they need. **It doesn't** - you need to think, engage, act and take notes. You need to engage and enquire. The best students ask lots of questions.

The <a href="https://medium.goodnotes.com/study-with-ease-the-best-way-to-take-notes-2749a3e8297b">Cornell Notes</a> method for note-taking in lectures is worth considering.

The approach has helped some students in the past and seems useful to me.

It is explained in two short videos on the <a href="https://lsc.cornell.edu/how-to-study/taking-notes/cornell-note-taking-system/">The Cornell Note Taking System</a>.

Taking notes like this in lectures will give us some pointers for discussion - we have time to for discussion through which we can explore the concepts, issues involved in visualizing society.

**IMPORTANT:** slides that I use in class will not contain detailed notes of explanations, but PDFs will be available for you to download and annotate shortly before classes. So make sure that you have a good system for storing and annotating PDFs and linking the slides and your notes.

This kind of active preparation will help you learn from me, and help me know where you need help with your learning.<br/>Learning is the whole point of the module!<br/>It's mutual and you have an important role to play.<br/>I ned to now what you need to learn, and I need to learn what I am teaching well and what I am doing not so well. So please **prepare well**, to make the most of your time learning with me about _Visualizing Society_ and commmunicate!<br/><br/>

---

### Indicative Content

You can find titles and descriptions of each of the ten sessions on the [Module Homepage](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=14949).

### Reading and Resources

An annotated [Module Reading List](https://rl.talis.com/3/city/lists/4D152441-27AB-C0A5-5DAD-E23F65978349.html) includes links to books, blogs, online resources and selected journal articles - most of which are openly accessible in digital form through University subscriptions. Module texts that are relevant across the module and will help with the assessment are also listed.

This consists of ...

- **ESSENTIAL READING**<br/>
  **These are the sources that you really need to read and know well.**<br/> I recommend reading them **early in the course** to inform your learning, and suggest you read them before the end of reading week (week 06).You will have coursework to complete by then too - so the earlier the better!

- **RECOMMENDED READING**<br/>
  I recommend these sources to help provide detail, explanations and examples around many of the core concepts that are introduced. These are valuable sources that provide depth that will support the introductions provided in class. They will help you understand concepts, give you exammples, offer fresh perspecives and give you the information and knowledge that will enable you to do well in the module. All are available digitally online through our library subscriptions. Decide which source piques your interest ... read through, take notes, and use the knowledge, concepts and ideas to inform your thinking and approach to visualization ...

- **REFERENCE MATERIAL**<br/>
  These are other sources that you may find useful if you ant to follow up on a paricular idea or concept. Use these books and web sites to support your learning on the module as you see fit ...

We will be using the **Tableau Desktop** software for visualization. The software is installed on computers in the University and available to students for use off campus through the company's _Academic Program_.
Support on accessing and installing the software is provided on the [Module Homepage](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=14949).

### Assessment

The [Module Assessment](https://moodle4.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=824638) will give you the opportunity to show whether you have achieved the intended module learning outcomes (we give you credit if you have) and if so, the extent to which this is the case (we give more marks for higher levels of achievement).

Assessment will involve two components:

1.  we ask you to perform a _structured evaluation_ in which you **assess** a selected data graphic design - submitted at the end of reading week, and
2.  you will then be asked to **design** _a data graphic that visualizes society_ - submitted after the end of term along with a justification and critique of the design that reflects on feedback provided in class.

The coursework is weighted 30:70 between these two components.

The pass mark for the module is **40%**.

<!---
There are no minimum qualifying marks for specific assessments.
  --->

All students who fail the assessment are permitted a re-sit, with marks capped at 40% - see your programme documentation for details.

Should any extenuating circumstances compromise your ability to study then you should report them promptly in accordance with University procedures for dealing with [Extenuating Circumstances](https://www.city.ac.uk/student-administration/if-things-go-wrong/extenuating-circumstances). Circumstances accepted through this process can be considered by the _Board of Assessment_ during its decision making.

Please use this process if you are unable to study as well as you would like for reasons beyond your control. It's there to help you during difficult times, and to enable us to assess you fairly in line with your capability.

### Learning and Engagement

I love to work with motivated, engaged, enquiring students - so please think through the subjects that are introduced in class, share ideas, ask questions and suggest answers.

I'd love to inspire you in your use of data and graphics, but would also like to be inspired by you too!

It all works best if you prepare for class by keeping up to date with the essential and recommended reading, and do any preparation listed on Moodle. Please come to class as informed active participants in the module.

Please also arrive for lessons **in good time** - it is disruptive to staff and fellow students if you arrive late. If you have colleagues who arrive late - let them know that they have responsibilitis to you and the teaching staff to be on time.
Be punctual, informed and ready to learn. Take notes, ask questions, express concerns, share ideas and challenge teaching staff.

This is a module in which some creativity is required - so be bold in developing and justifying solutions and try to enjoy the challenges and opportunities associated with _Visualizing Society_.

### Visualizing Society, Visualizing The World

An admission!

❤️ My unashamed intention is to help you develop a <i>love for graphics</i> ❤️

<ul>
     <li>an <b>appreciation</b> of what they can achieve and how they can be used;</li>
     <li>a <b>skepticism</b> about how they might be authored and read;</li>
     <li>a <b>respect</b> for their power to explore, explain, reveal, conceal and surprise;</li>
     <li>a sense of their <b>beauty</b>, their elegance and how excellence in graphics might be achieved;</li>
     <li>a <b>desire</b> to seek, consume and make them as a means of empowering you and enhancing your life.</li>
</ul>
  
Much of the module revolves around the work undertaken at the <a href="https://gicentre.net">giCentre</a> - a leading visualization research and design group at City St George's, University of London, through which many of us have developed exactly these things.

I look forward to meeting you and learning with you, and doing my best to inspire you!

---

<div style="text-align:right; width:90%; margin-right:5%" markdown=1>

**Prof. Jason Dykes**,<br/>
**24th January 2025**<br/>
_A Crazily Windy Morning in Leicestershire_

</div>  

<!---
**20th January 2023** - _A Sunny Morning in Leicestershire_ <br/>
**31st January 2023** - _A Cloudy Morning in Clerkenwell_
  --->

---
