<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://jsndyks.github.io/sg2047/css/sg2047.css">

<!-- ##  Week 12 : Coursework Workshop -->

<style type="text/css">

.q {background-color:#f6fef0; margin:1em; padding:1.25em; padding-left:2em; font-size:90%; color:#20b020; markdown=1}
.aside {background-color:#fdfdfd; margin:1em; padding:1.25em; padding-left:5em; padding-right:2em; font-size:90%; color:#404040; border:#e0e0e0 dashed 1pt; markdown=1}
.iB {border:solid #c0c0c0 1px; padding:0.25em; margin:0.5em;}
.iR {float:right; margin:0.5em; margin-left:1em}
.break {clear:both}
.hrl {border:0.5px dashed #e0e0e0; height:0.25px; background-color:#fff}

h4 h5 h6 {color:#f00}
.reality {background-color:#fff8f0; padding:0.5em; border:0.5em}
.r2 {font-size:80%}
.myTable table {margin-left:4em}
.myTable table td {padding:0.5em; padding-left:2em;padding-right:2em;}
blockquote {margin:1em; margin-left:6em: padding:2em; padding-left:3em;padding-right:3em; background-color:#f8f8f8}

</style>

I have set up some voluntary _Coursework Workshops_ that will give you a chance to get some feedback on your work so far.

Please work on your coursework workbook and solutions in advance and come along to one of the three scheduled classes on Thursday:

| Day |      Date | Time          | Place     |
| --- | --------: | ------------- | :-------- |
| THU | **20/04** | 11:00 - 11:50 | **ELG05** |
| THU | **20/04** | 12:00 - 12:50 | **ELG05** |
| THU | **20/04** | 14:00 - 14:50 | **EG04**  |

These times should now appear in your timetable.

We will schedule activity on the day according to numbers, but the intention will be to talk to each of you individually.

This kind of class works best if :

1.  you have _found something_ to discuss - **a pattern**
2.  you have _specific questions_ or thoughts about your designs - **that relate to the theory and guidelines**

So please do the following preparation, as requested, in advance of the session :

1.  complete the [Week 09 Practical Exercise](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/url/view.php?id=2381660) and log _DIFFERENCES_, _FEATURES_ and _QUESTIONS_ about society in your part of London following some initial data exploration.
<!---
<br/> I will schedule time in the hour before the class to check through this log, make comments and give you feedback on your findings and ideas.
--->

2.  identify a design decision that you have made that you think is either _EFFECTIVE_ or _QUESTIONABLE_ and let me know **why**.<br/>We can then discuss this design choice, which should give you some help in explaining choices and rationale - which is a big part of the task.

If you would like to chat 1:1 at other times find me on _Teams chat_ or in _A401E_ during _Office Hours_

Upcoming office hours are ...

<!---
 * 30/03 @ 1pm
 * 01/04 @ 9am
 * 08/04 @ 10am
 * 08/04 @ 3pm
--->

| Day |      Date | Time          | Via             |
| --- | --------: | ------------- | :-------------- |
| TUE | **18/04** | 2:30 - 3:30pm | Teams only      |
| THU | **20/04** | 3pm - 4pm     | Office or Teams |
| TUE | **25/04** | 11:00 - 11:50 | Teams only      |
| TUE | **25/04** | 14:00 - 14:50 | Teams only      |

**IMPORTANT:** I am away all day on Weds 26th and won't be available online to help. <br/>But you should have your submission finalised and submitted well before deadline day.<br/>Please factor this in to your planning and remember that in fairness to all, **if your work is not submitted by the deadline, it will not be marked and a score of zero will be returned.**

Also, remember that you have various resources to help with **Tableau** and I do not intend these sessions to focus on the software. They should instead focus on _data_, _design_ and _decisions_.

You can find support for learning and using **Tableau** in :

- the [Tableau Training Videos](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=2381591) that have been available all term
- the [_Week 10_ - Practical Exercise](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=2381669) and associated [Week 10 - Tableau Workbook (TWBX)](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=2381670)
- the _Week 11_ video on [Designing Dashboards](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/url/view.php?id=2583550)
- the resources listed in the [Week 11 - Further Guidelines, Examples & Good Practice](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/page/view.php?id=2583419), which draws attention to the examples, workbooks and design discussion available in the [Course Text - _The Big Book of Dashboards_](https://rl.talis.com/3/city/items/535E9DE8-194F-A3E2-7490-341696F2265B.html?lang=en) and its associated online materials.
<!---
and associated [Example Composite Dashboard](https://moodle.city.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=2381675)
 --->

<!-- There's lots to learn and lots to do, but I also recommend that you find time to get some rest over the _Easter weekend_
. Regular rest, sleep and exercise is just as important as regular efficient work, and you need to work hard to get a balance that works well for you. -->

I look forward to seeing your work and hope to catch up with you through one or more of the opportunities listed above.

**Jason DYKES**<br/>
_17/04/2023_

&nbsp;

---

&nbsp;
